Hello and welcome.
This lecture I want to provide a walkthrough of implementing the adapter design padding using composition.
So we're going to bring up intelligence and we'll provide two examples to show you how to do this I'll
do another example in the next lecture.
Just so it's very clear on how this works we're going to create a new project this is gonna be our first
example.
And so we're just gonna name it adapter actually we'll say adapter adapter object composition example
and we'll say Example 1.
So we have another one.
Here we are.
I want to show you the current implementation and how we have two incompatible interfaces.
So let's suppose we have this interface dock and this has two methods quark and fly
certain types of dock docks can implement this interface.
So that allows docs to quack and fly.
So for example we could create a subclass of dock and we could just name it Mallard dock
and this will implement a dock and it will just have a couple methods that print out you know whether
or not they're quacking or flying.
So we'll just do a system that out again no real behavior here just for demonstration purposes we'll
just say quick and then we have another method.
We have to implement fly and this one we'll just print out something such as I am flying.
That's our first interface.
Now let's say we have another interface in this interface implements a turkey.
So we'll create another interface class.
We'll call this turkey and we'll make this an interface interface Turkey.
And this has two methods.
Turkeys don't actually quack.
They gobble so we're gonna say public void gobble
and then they're also going to fly because some turkeys can't fly although they can only fly short distances.
And then we have to implement something and for this interface and we'll just have a wild turkey.
I like using default access modifiers for some reason and these examples for simplicity so I don't have
to worry about filing me class while Turkey implements our turkey interface.
And just like the previous one.
It's just going to display some output.
So gobble is going to say system that out that line.
Gobble gobble.
With quotation marks
and then our other implementation will be fly.
This will say I am flying a short distance.
OK.
Pretty straightforward we have two interfaces here.
So this concrete implementation while Turkey implements the turkey like the dock it just prints out
some action.
Well you should notice though with these two interfaces is that they're incompatible.
Right.
And so Turkey's gobble and ducks quack.
Well we want to do is we want to adapt the turkey to a duck.
I don't know.
For some strange reason maybe we want to just make sure that turkeys.
We need more turkeys or whatever the case is we want to adapt the turkey to a duck so remember we're
going to have to need to create a client that uses the adapter pattern.
We need to have a target interface which the adapter is going to implement which the client will use
and the adapter is going to have an instance of the adapter.
Right.
So what do we have here for our participants.
While the target is gonna be the duck because that's what we want to eventually half right the client
wants to have a duck because we want to have a turkey act like a duck so Duck is the interface that
a wild turkey uses to act like a duck our client is thinking the wild turkey for our client when we
call it wild turkeys those are incompatible with the duck.
So the client is going to collaborate with the turkey adapter which will confirm conform the wild turkey
to a duck that will conform to the duck interface.
The adapter.
Is what you're gonna say actually adapt to is the turkey right because we're we're taking an existing
interface that needs adapting and the turkey needs to be modified so that it can act like a duck and
the adapter is the turkey adapter.
We're going to adapt the turkey to a duck.
Right.
So this is a perfect opportunity to use an adapter and you know one use case might be say we're short
on duck objects and we want to allow it to use some turkey objects in their place.
Well we can't use the turkey's out right because they have a different interface.
And so this is why we're writing the adapter so we can have Turkey's look like ducks.
OK.
So we're first going to query our turkey adapter the interface that we're adapting to is a dock.
So we don't have to create the interface of the adapter interface.
It's already created.
So here if we say new Java class we're gonna create our turkey adapter Turkey adapter.
And remember we have to have an adapter.
And there an instance.
So here we're trying to adapt to a turkey.
So we're just going to have a turkey instance.
OK.
This is the type we're going to adapt to.
We're gonna.
Well we're going to adapt to the duck but we're gonna take the turkey and we'll need to do our conversions
our constructor inside here is gonna take a turkey object like it's spelled Turkey correctly Turkey
adapter
and it's just gonna sign the member variable.
This that Turkey equals Turkey.
All right.
We have to get the reference to the object that we're adapting.
So here we do that through the constructor.
Now we're implementing the dog.
I forgot to say we're implementing the duck interface here.
Implements duck.
And so now we have to implement the quack on the fly.
So here's we're going to do the conversion using the composition using the turkey instance.
So here we can say quack because remember there's no quack method inside the turkey interface.
So we have to adapt it.
The quack translation between the classes should be easy.
We can just call the gobble method.
So here we can just say Turkey gobble.
And that's our conversion our fly is going to just basically call the turkey dot fly.
So even though both interfaces have the fly method Turkey's flying short distances.
Right.
They can't do long distance flying like ducks.
So the map between the ducks fly method and the turkeys fly method.
We need to call the turkey fly method five times to make.
So here we ever fly and we're just going to have a loop or it equals zero eyes less than five plus plus.
And this is just going to call Turkey dot fly because they only fly in short spurts and this will end
the turkey adapter and we should be good.
Now we need to create a client that uses the adapter so let's go ahead and create a client
its client is going to have to implement the main method.
And so first we are going gonna need to create a dock right.
So let's create a mallard duck.
We can actually create a mallard duck and we'll say new mallard duck.
We also want to create a wild turkey
wild turkey.
Turkey equals new Wild Turkey.
Pretty straightforward.
Now we want to adapt the turkey to a duck.
So we're gonna wrap the Turkey and Turkey adapter which makes it look like a duck.
So we're gonna say duck Turkey adapter equals new Turkey adapter and we're gonna pass in the wild turkey
really trouble smelling Turkey
then we're gonna actually test it to see what Turkey says when it tries to gobble and fly.
So we'll say system thought out the front line the the Turkey
says
and this is testing a turkey to make it gobble and fly so well done just say Turkey gobble Turkey that
fly and then we also want to test out what the duck says
the duck.
And we also want to add a new line just to make it complete
and so then we'll say let's see we're actually out of help a month in here.
Let's add a helper method because it makes it a little bit easier to say static void test duck.
This is just gonna get a duck and it's gonna call its quack and fly methods for the duck
sauce a Dog Duck.
Clark this is so we can avoid duplication of code.
OK.
So now we go back up here and instead of duplicating code we can now say test duck which is the duck
we just created and then we can also test the turkey adapter to now see if it's adapted correctly.
Right.
Because the initial test here we were just testing the turkey and the turkey is obviously going to act
like a turkey.
Now we want to have the turkey back like a duck.
So here we're gonna say that Turkey adapter says
and this is gonna say test duck but it's gonna pass and the turkey adapter and so that little helper
method allowed us to reduce code and that's it.
And this basically will demonstrate the adapter the turkey adapter and I'll act like a duck.
So let's go ahead and build this
and run it and we'll see some output.
So we say run client and what you'll notice is Turkey which is a turkey says gobble gobble gobble.
And it's flying a short distance.
The duck says quack and I'm flying and I am flying the turkey adapter is not going to act like a dog
even though it's a wild turkey.
So it's still going to say gobble gobble.
It's then going to fly a short distance five times because it fly shorter so the turkey gobbles and
files as flies a short distance.
The duck quacks and flies just like you'd expect.
And the adapter gobbles when Quark is called and flies a few times when fly is called the test stock
method never knows it has a turkey disguised as a duck.
And so that's the adapter design pattern using object composition.
And we'll go through one more example just to relate this.
But again notice that we have our turkey adapter.
It has the audacity inside of it and we call methods on that to do the conversion diplomats the interface
that you actually want the output to be.
So the turkey's going to act like the duck target and that's it.
Thank you.